---
draft: false 
date: 2025-03-29
slug: reconstructing-sharded-for-future-development
readtime: 2
categories:
    - Announcements & Updates
links:
    - Community Server: https://discord.gg/xMPGQDK6Bt
authors:
    - hyerland
---

# Reconstructing Sharded for Future Development

Some major changes are happening behind Sharded's development and it's time to go public
about those changes plus talk about the future on the project.

<!-- more -->

## Sharded's Payment Modal

Originally, Sharded was going to operate as a **freemium subscription based service** providing access to addons, exclusive features, and more.
Now due to development changes, further research on open-source projects, and overall deliberation on the matter, Sharded is going to operate
on a **freemium supporters based service**[^1] with the difference being features locked behind a paywall would eventually become free and 
the supporters only features are early access for a limited time.

[^1]: As of March 29, 2025, a way to sponsor us isn't available yet thus meaning all features currently being developed or maintained are going to be
free for everyone until we are able to have a means to support us financially.

We hope this change allows us to be more open-source while sacrificing opportunities go to closed-source software as we believe open-source is 
the better way of developing projects.

## Sharded's Release

You may have been wondering why happened to Sharded's original release date and unfortunately we got some good and bad news.
> **Sharded no longer have a release date until said otherwise.**

Here's as to why we decided to postpone the stable release of Sharded.

1. Sharded nearing the original release was hit with an attempted DDoS attack since our infrastructure is built on DigitalOcean and unfortunately got caught
in the crossfire.
2. Multiple features that we're announced had to be cancelled, reworked, or brought out of the stable release thus not delivering on what we promised.
3. Development of **Sharded CLI** and other components are replacing other deprecated components such as Docker being the main way of hosting sharded.
4. Major development procedures we're changed and a reformatting is currently in progress *(as of March 29, 2025)* further delaying Sharded.

Plus a major discord restructure and more is planned for Sharded as we are committed to making Sharded feature-complete, stable, and using the best practices
within the development sphere leading us to making the decision.

## Sharded Addons

Our much anticipated features we announced is **Sharded Addons,** a way for users to customize and expand on how Sharded operates and functionality and don't worry.
Sharded Addons is not cancelled and is currently under active development with **Sharded CLI** being close development. Learn more at our [Sharded Addons documentation.](https://sharded.app/addons)

## Global Ban List

Another of our anticipated feature is the **Global Ban List** as a moderation feature to further protect discord servers is currently under active development.
More information is soon to come with available. 

## Closing statements

Sharded is always growing as both a community and the discord bot and we want the best to happen to Sharded however, unfortunate events or steps happen and we gotta adapt and continue
development one way or another.

With the best regards, Adam Garza and the Sharded Interactive team.